== anon-gw-anonymizer-config ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Tor Configuration and Tweaks for Anonymity Distributions ===

Tor config file with distribution defaults (for stream isolation, etc.),
example user configurations and other tweaks required. The Tor binary
itself does not get modified.

Deactivates IPv4 forwarding using /etc/sysctl.d/
IPv4 forwarding is not required for a Tor based Anonymity Distribution
Gateways. Deactivating it as defense in depth to prevent leaks.

Deactivates IPv6 using /etc/sysctl.d/
There are no IPv6 Anonymity Distribution Gateways featuring an IPv6 firewall
yet. Therefore deactivating it to prevent leaks.

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.displace ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.displace /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.displace]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.displace</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Replace configuration files shipped by the Debian <code>tor</code>
package with configuration files by this package.

* <code>/etc/tor/torrc.anondist</code>
* <code>/etc/default/tor.anondist</code>
* <code>/etc/apparmor.d/local/system_tor.anondist</code>
* <code>/etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.bin.obfsproxy.anondist</code>

=== /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.postinst ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.postinst /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.postinst]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.postinst</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Add user "user" to the group "debian-tor", so user "user" can access Tor's control port.
User "user" already exists thanks to the dist-base-files package.
=== /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.undisplace ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.undisplace /debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.undisplace]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/debian/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.undisplace</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Legacy.
Reset /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc to original.
This is possible since there is now torrc.d support.

* <code>/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>

File is not being used for controlling Tor-startup when Tor is launched by systemd.
* <code>/etc/default/tor.anondist</code>

=== /etc/apparmor.d/local/system_tor.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/apparmor.d/local/system_tor.anondist /etc/apparmor.d/local/system_tor.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/apparmor.d/local/system_tor.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Local AppArmor Profile for Anonymity Distributions

AUDIT desired.
=== /etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.bin.obfsproxy.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.bin.obfsproxy.anondist /etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.bin.obfsproxy.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.bin.obfsproxy.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

apparmor relaxations for obfsproxy
=== /etc/sudoers.d/anonymizer-config-gateway ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/sudoers.d/anonymizer-config-gateway /etc/sudoers.d/anonymizer-config-gateway]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/sudoers.d/anonymizer-config-gateway</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Allow members of the group <code>sudo</code> to restart Tor without a
password.

Tor config check using <code>anon-verify</code> without a password.
=== /etc/sysctl.d/anonymizer-config-gateway.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/sysctl.d/anonymizer-config-gateway.conf /etc/sysctl.d/anonymizer-config-gateway.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/sysctl.d/anonymizer-config-gateway.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Raising fs.file-max to 100000 as suggested by /etc/init.d/tor.
* <code>fs.file-max=100000</code>
=== /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor is disabled by default.
Users are supposed to enable Tor through setup-dist which would
create file /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf with
"DisableNetwork 0" or by removing the hash ('#') in front of
"DisableNetwork 0" in /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf
* <code>DisableNetwork 1</code>

* <code>VirtualAddrNetwork 10.192.0.0/10</code>
* <code>AutomapHostsOnResolve 1</code>

* <code>Log notice file /run/tor/log</code>
=== /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Gateway: `ClientOnionAuthDir`, `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
=== /etc/torrc.d/70_workstation.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/70_workstation.conf /etc/torrc.d/70_workstation.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/70_workstation.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->


This is non-ideal. Better would be to copy the contents from
/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist into this file.
Unfortunately this is required until "Qubes-Whonix eth1 static networking"
gets implemented, see:
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T947

This is because Qubes uses dynamic local LAN IPs by default. By
extension Qubes-Whonix internal LAN IP of virtual network interface eth1 is
also dynamic. However, Tor needs to bind at a specific IP address. An IP
address which needs to be written verbatim to a Tor configuration file
before Tor starts. And Tor does not have any option to build to a network
interface. Tor only supports binding to IP addresses. Tor also does not
support reading the IP address into a variable or any scripting.
Package qubes-whonix uses a dpkg trigger to modify the IP addresses written
in file /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist to the current
dynamic IP address of eth1. Having the dpkg trigger modify this file in /etc
directly would be a bad idea since then this would falsely detected as a
configuration file manually edited by users and users would get an
interactive dpkg configuration file conflict resolution dialog during
upgrade when this file is upgraded.

* <code>%include /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>

=== /etc/torrc.d/95_whonix.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/95_whonix.conf /etc/torrc.d/95_whonix.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/95_whonix.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->


* <code>%include /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/</code>

=== /lib/systemd/system/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.service ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.service /lib/systemd/system/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.service]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/lib/systemd/system/anon-gw-anonymizer-config.service</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Runs <code>/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/make-sure-torrc-exist</code>
to Make Sure Torrc Files Exist and runs
<code>/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner</code> to remove
files not ending with '.conf' from folders <code>/etc/torrc.d</code> and
<code>/usr/local/etc/torrc.d</code>. Runs <code>Before=tor.service</code>
and <code>Before=tor@default.service</code>.
=== /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/30_clean-torrc-d-on-reload.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/30_clean-torrc-d-on-reload.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/30_clean-torrc-d-on-reload.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/30_clean-torrc-d-on-reload.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Run torrc.d cleaner at reload.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/torrc-d-is-comming/4041/72
* <code>[Service]</code>
* <code>ExecReload=</code>
* <code>ExecReload=sh -c "/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner && /bin/kill -HUP ${MAINPID}"</code>

=== /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/40_obfs4proxy-workaround.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/40_obfs4proxy-workaround.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/40_obfs4proxy-workaround.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/40_obfs4proxy-workaround.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->


The hardening option NoNewPrvileges=Yes in the Debian tor@default.service file breaks loading of obfs4proxy in combination with Debian's apparmor profile which uses PUx. (ix execution permissions work with NoNewPrivileges=No)
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T676
* <code>[Service]</code>
* <code>NoNewPrivileges=no</code>

=== /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_controlsocket-workaround.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_controlsocket-workaround.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_controlsocket-workaround.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_controlsocket-workaround.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

When both User option and DisableNetwork 1 are set as part of the Tor configurations, the Tor control socket will not be opened unless reloading Tor.
https://lists.torproject.org/pipermail/tor-dev/2018-February/012887.html
* <code>[Service]</code>
* <code>ExecStartPost=/bin/kill -HUP ${MAINPID}</code>

=== /usr/bin/anon-consensus-delete ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/bin/anon-consensus-delete /usr/bin/anon-consensus-delete]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/bin/anon-consensus-delete</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

stops Tor, deletes Tor consensus and restarts Tor
=== /usr/bin/anon-info ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/bin/anon-info /usr/bin/anon-info]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/bin/anon-info</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor apt sources and version info command line tool.
=== /usr/bin/anon-log ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/bin/anon-log /usr/bin/anon-log]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/bin/anon-log</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor log parsing command line utility.
=== /usr/bin/anon-verify ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/bin/anon-verify /usr/bin/anon-verify]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/bin/anon-verify</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor configuration check command line utility.
=== /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/edit-etc-resolv-conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/edit-etc-resolv-conf /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/edit-etc-resolv-conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/edit-etc-resolv-conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

TODO
=== /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/make-sure-torrc-exist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/make-sure-torrc-exist /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/make-sure-torrc-exist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/make-sure-torrc-exist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

helper script to create folders

* <code>/etc/tor</code>
* <code>/etc/torrc.d/code>
* <code>/usr/local/etc/torrc.d</code>

and make sure files exist

* <code>/etc/tor/torrc</code>
* <code>/etc/torrc.d/95_whonix.conf</code>
* <code>/usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf</code>
* <code>/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/user_torrc_template.conf /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/50_user.conf</code>

create folder <code>/var/lib/tor/authdir</code>

with correct access rights from template folder <code>/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config</code>.
=== /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-d-cleaner</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Move files in folder /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/ and /etc/torrc.d/ that do not
end with '.conf' out of the way.
=== /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-parser ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-parser /usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-parser]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc-parser</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

helper script for <code>anon-verify</code>
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/nyx ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/nyx /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/nyx]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/nyx</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to start nxy
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/reloadtor ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/reloadtor /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/reloadtor]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/reloadtor</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to reload Tor
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/restarttor ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/restarttor /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/restarttor]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/restarttor</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to restart Tor
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/stoptor ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/stoptor /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/stoptor]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/stoptor</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to stop Tor
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/tordata ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/tordata /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/tordata]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/tordata</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to open folder <code>/var/lib/tor</code> in default file manager
using graphical sudo.
=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrc ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrc /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrc]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrc</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->


https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=15282
https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt-sudo/issues/114
https://forums.whonix.org/t/use-sudoedit-in-whonix-documentation-and-whonix-software/7599/30
* <code>lxsudo sudo -u "$(whoami)" env VISUAL="$VISUAL" sudoedit /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/50_user.conf</code>

=== /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrcexamples ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrcexamples /usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrcexamples]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/torrcexamples</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

wrapper to show Tor configuration examples
=== /usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc_torrc_d_template.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc_torrc_d_template.conf /usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc_torrc_d_template.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc_torrc_d_template.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->


* <code>%include /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/</code>

=== /usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc.examples ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc.examples /usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc.examples]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/torrc.examples</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

documentation only
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-arm.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-arm.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-arm.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-arm.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Nyx - Status Monitor for Tor - desktop file for start menu
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-reloadtor.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-reloadtor.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-reloadtor.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-reloadtor.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

desktop file
reload Tor
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-stoptor.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-stoptor.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-stoptor.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-stoptor.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

desktop file
stop tor
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-tordata.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-tordata.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-tordata.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-tordata.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

desktop file
Tor Data - Open /var/lib/tor folder in file manager
<code>/usr/lib/gateway-shortcuts/tordata</code>
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-torrc.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-torrc.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-torrc.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-torrc.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

desktop file
Open /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/50_user.conf configuration file in editor
=== /usr/share/applications/gateway-torrcexamples.desktop ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/applications/gateway-torrcexamples.desktop /usr/share/applications/gateway-torrcexamples.desktop]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/applications/gateway-torrcexamples.desktop</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

desktop file
Tor Configuration Examples
=== /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Workstation: `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
IP HARDCODED unfortunately.
