== anon-gw-anonymizer-config ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Tor Configuration and Tweaks for Anonymity Distributions ===

Tor config file with distribution defaults (for stream isolation, etc.),
example user configurations and other tweaks required. The Tor binary
itself does not get modified.

Deactivates IPv4 forwarding using /etc/sysctl.d/
IPv4 forwarding is not required for a Tor based Anonymity Distribution
Gateways. Deactivating it as defense in depth to prevent leaks.

Deactivates IPv6 using /etc/sysctl.d/
There are no IPv6 Anonymity Distribution Gateways featuring an IPv6 firewall
yet. Therefore deactivating it to prevent leaks.

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor is disabled by default.
Users are supposed to enable Tor through setup-dist which would
create file /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf with
"DisableNetwork 0" or by removing the hash ('#') in front of
"DisableNetwork 0" in /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf
* <code>DisableNetwork 1</code>

* <code>VirtualAddrNetwork 10.192.0.0/10</code>
* <code>AutomapHostsOnResolve 1</code>

* <code>Log notice file /run/tor/log</code>
=== /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Gateway: `ClientOnionAuthDir`, `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
=== /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Workstation: `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
IP HARDCODED unfortunately.
