== anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Prevents Tor over Tor in Anonymity Distribution Workstations ===

Supposed to be installed on Workstations, which prevents installing the real
Tor package from upstream (ex: Debian, The Tor Project) APT repositories. Its
purpose is to prevent, running Tor over Tor.

It allows installation of packages, which depend on Tor, such as TorChat,
parcimonie and torbrowser-launcher.

This package uses the "Provides: tor" field[1], which should avoid any kinds of
conflicts, in case upstream releases a higher version of Tor. This won't work
for packages, which depend on an explicit version of Tor (such as TorChat).
This is non-ideal, since for example the torchat package will install Tor, but
still acceptable, because of the following additional implementations.

Binaries eventually installed (by the tor Debian package) /usr/bin/tor as well
as /usr/sbin/tor are replaced with a dummy wrapper that does nothing
(dpkg-diverted using config-package-dev).

systemd-socket-proxyd listens on Tor's default ports. system Tor's
127.0.0.1:9050, 127.0.0.1:9051 and TBB's 127.0.0.1:9150, 127.0.0.1:9051,
which prevents the
default Tor Browser Bundle or Tor package by The Tor Project from opening
these default ports, which will result in Tor failing to open its listening
port and therefore exiting, thus preventing Tor over Tor.

See also:

* https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Dev/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor
* https://tor.stackexchange.com/questions/427/is-running-tor-over-tor-dangerous

[1] See "7.5 Virtual packages - Provides" on
http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-relationships.html

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.displace ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.displace /debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.displace]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.displace</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>config-package-dev</code> <code>displace</code> the following files:

* <code>/etc/default/tor.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/tor.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/sbin/tor.anondist</code>

=== /debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.postinst ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.postinst /debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.postinst]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/debian/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.postinst</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>/etc/X11/Xsession.d/</code> hook to <code>source</code>
<code>/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh</code>

Add user "user" to the group "debian-tor", so user "user" can access Tor's control port.
User "user" already exists thanks to the dist-base-files package.
* <code>addgroup --quiet user debian-tor</code>

=== /etc/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.d/30_anon-dist.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/etc/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.d/30_anon-dist.conf /etc/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.d/30_anon-dist.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/etc/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.d/30_anon-dist.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>systemd-unit-files-generator</code> and <code>socat-unix-sockets</code> configuration examples.
=== /etc/profile.d/20_torbrowser.sh ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/etc/profile.d/20_torbrowser.sh /etc/profile.d/20_torbrowser.sh]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/etc/profile.d/20_torbrowser.sh</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>/etc/profile.d</code> hook to <code>source</code>
<code>/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh</code>
=== /etc/rsyslog.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/etc/rsyslog.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf /etc/rsyslog.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/etc/rsyslog.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

rsyslog configuration drop-in snippet

No longer required since no longer using rinetd.

Workaround for:
'rinetd fills up the logs until disk is full up if it cannot bind'
http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=796235
* <code>:msg, contains, "accept(0): Socket operation on non-socket" stop</code>

=== /etc/X11/Xsession.d/20torbrowser ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/etc/X11/Xsession.d/20torbrowser /etc/X11/Xsession.d/20torbrowser]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/etc/X11/Xsession.d/20torbrowser</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>/etc/X11/Xsession.d/</code> hook to <code>source</code>
<code>/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh</code>
=== /lib/systemd/system/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.service ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.service /lib/systemd/system/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.service]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/lib/systemd/system/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.service</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Runs <code>/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/state-files</code> and
<code>/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/socat-unix-sockets</code>.
=== /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Qubes-Whonix:

Clear 'ConditionPathExists=/run/qubes-service/whonix-gateway' set by
the qubes-whonix package, which is useful on the gateway but not on the
workstation.

In effect the dummy Tor service will run on Whonix-Workstation.

* <code>ConditionPathExists=</code>

=== /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/51_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/51_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/51_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/51_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Compatibility with system Tor package.

Overrides systemd unit file by system Tor package for compatibility so
the dummy Tor binary <code>/usr/bin/tor</code> gets load instead.

Makes all <code>systemctl</code> <code>restart</code> <code>reload</code>
<code>status</code> commands compatible with dummy Tor.
=== /lib/systemd/system/tor.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/tor.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf /lib/systemd/system/tor.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/lib/systemd/system/tor.service.d/50_anon_ws_disable_stacked_tor.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Make 'sudo service tor status' exit '0' for better compatibility.
* <code>RemainAfterExit=yes</code>
=== /usr/bin/tor.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/bin/tor.anondist /usr/bin/tor.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/bin/tor.anondist</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

dummy Tor wrapper doing nothing but wait forever and

OnionShare support for configuration option "bundled Tor".
=== /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/socat-unix-sockets ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/socat-unix-sockets /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/socat-unix-sockets]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/socat-unix-sockets</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

<code>socat-unix-sockets</code> starter.
=== /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/state-files ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/state-files /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/state-files]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/state-files</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Emulates Tor by copying and chmodding the correct state files such as
<code>/run/tor/control.authcookie</code>.
=== /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/systemd-unit-files-generator ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/systemd-unit-files-generator /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/systemd-unit-files-generator]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/systemd-unit-files-generator</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Generates systemd unit files in
<code>/lib/systemd/system/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor_autogen_*</code> which
listen on common local ports used by popular Tor applications such as Tor
Browser.

Redirect Whonix-Workstation port <code>9050</code> to Whonix-Gateway port
<code>9050</code> and so forth.

Create a unix domain socket files such as
/run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/127.0.0.1_9050.sock and forward those
to $GATEWAY_IP:9150 etc. See also:
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T192

system Tor default SocksSocket is /run/tor/socks
redirect Whonix-Workstation unix domain socket file /run/tor/socks to Whonix-Gateway port 9050

Debian /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc uses '/run/tor/control' Tor ControlSocket
Redirect Whonix-Workstation unix domain socket file /run/tor/control to Whonix-Gateway port 9051
=== /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh /usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/lib/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/torbrowser.sh</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Environment variables for Tor Browser integration.

Prevents Tor over Tor.

Deactivate tor-launcher,
a Vidalia replacement as browser extension,
to prevent running Tor over Tor.
https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/6009
https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor-launcher.git
* <code>export TOR_SKIP_LAUNCH=1</code>

The following TOR_SOCKS_HOST and TOR_SOCKS_PORT variables
do not work flawlessly, due to an upstream bug in Tor Button:
   "TOR_SOCKS_HOST, TOR_SOCKS_PORT regression"
   https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/8336
(As an alternative,
   /home/user/tor-browser/Browser/TorBrowser/Data/Browser/profile.default/user.js
could be used.)
Fortunately, this is not required for Whonix by default anymore,
because systemd-socket-proxyd is configured to redirect
Whonix-Workstation ports
IP HARDCODED but no need to change since comment only.
127.0.0.1:9050 to Whonix-Gateway 10.152.152.10:9050
127.0.0.1:9051 to Whonix-Gateway 10.152.152.10:9051
127.0.0.1:9150 to Whonix-Gateway 10.152.152.10:9150
127.0.0.1:9151 to Whonix-Gateway 10.152.152.10:9151
<code>#export TOR_SOCKS_HOST="10.152.152.10"</code><br />
<code>#export TOR_SOCKS_PORT="9150"</code><br />
<code>#export TOR_CONTROL_HOST="127.0.0.1"</code><br />
<code>#export TOR_CONTROL_PORT="9151"</code><br />
this is to satisfy Tor Button just filled up with anything
<code>#export TOR_CONTROL_PASSWD='"password"'</code><br />

We are not using TOR_TRANSPROXY=1 because that would break Tor Browser's
per tab stream isolation. (Tor Browser talks to a Tor SocksPort and sets a
socks user name and Tor is using IsolateSOCKSAuth by Tor default.)
<code>#export TOR_TRANSPROXY=1</code><br />

Environment variable to configure Tor Browser to use a pre existing unix
domain socket file instead of creating its own one to avoid Tor over Tor and
to keep it being able to connect.
systemd-socket-proxyd is being used for creation of unix domain socket file
/run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/127.0.0.1_9150.sock and forwarding it to
to Whonix-Gateway port 9150.
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T192
https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/20111#comment:5
* <code>export TOR_SOCKS_IPC_PATH="/run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/127.0.0.1_9150.sock"</code>
* <code>export TOR_CONTROL_IPC_PATH="/run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/127.0.0.1_9151.sock"</code>

environment variable to skip TorButton control port verification
https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/13079
* <code>export TOR_SKIP_CONTROLPORTTEST=1</code>

Environment variable to disable the "TorButton" ->
"Open Network Settings..." menu item. It is not useful and confusing to have
on a workstation, because Tor must be configured on the Whonix-Gateway, which is
for security reasons forbidden from the Whonix-Gateway.
https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/14100
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Tor_Browser/Advanced_Users#Open_Network_Settings
* <code>export TOR_NO_DISPLAY_NETWORK_SETTINGS=1</code>

=== /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Create folder <code>/run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor</code>.

* <code>d /run/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor 0775 root root</code>

=== /usr/sbin/tor.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/blob/master/usr/sbin/tor.anondist /usr/sbin/tor.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-ws-disable-stacked-tor/usr/sbin/tor.anondist</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

dummy Tor wrapper doing nothing but wait forever.
