== debug-misc ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/debug-misc
* [https://github.com/Whonix/debug-misc/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Enables miscellaneous debug settings ===

Ships a `/etc/default/grub.d/45_debug-misc.cfg` configuration file,
that removes `quiet`, `loglevel=0` and `debugfs=off` from the
`GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` variable and adds `debug=vc` to the kernel
boot parameter to enable verbose output during the initial ramdisk boot
phase.

Undo debugging related `sysctl` settings by package `security-misc`.

Enables persistent systemd journal log.

Disables `/lib/systemd/coredump.conf.d/disable-coredumps.conf` by package
`security-misc` by creating a symlink from
`/etc/systemd/coredump.conf.d/disable-coredumps.conf` to `/dev/null`.
`debian/debug-misc.links`

Disables `panic-on-oops`, `remove-system.map` by package `security-misc`.

`config-package-dev` `hide` `/etc/sysctl.d/30_silent-kernel-printk.conf` which
kernel.printk to default as if security-misc would not have lowered verbosity.

Configure systemd `getty` service to not clear `tty`.
`/lib/systemd/system/getty@tty.service.d/30_debug-misc.conf`

Coredumps are enabled.
`/etc/security/limits.d/40_debug-misc.conf`

Coredumps may contain important information such as encryption keys or
passwords. Package `security-misc` disables coredumps. Package `debug-misc`
re-enables coredumps.

Contains a helper tool to cause a segfault for testing purposes.
`segfault-build` creates `segfault-run`. Running `segfault-run` results in
`segfault-run` terminating with a segfault. This is useful to test if
coredump files are being generated when an application crashes.
`/usr/sbin/segfault-build`
`/usr/share/debug-misc/segfault.c`

For better usability, to ease debugging in case of issues.

For better security, this package should only be installed on specific
machines that require debugging. Unfortunately, security and debugging are
conflicting optimization goals.
=== /etc/sysctl.d/40_debug-misc.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/debug-misc/blob/master/etc/sysctl.d/40_debug-misc.conf /etc/sysctl.d/40_debug-misc.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/debug-misc/etc/sysctl.d/40_debug-misc.conf</code>


* <code>kernel.panic_on_oops=0</code>
* <code>kernel.sysrq=1</code>

* <code>fs.suid_dumpable=1</code>
<code>#fs.suid_dumpable=2</code><br />
<code>#fs.suid_dumpable=3</code><br />

* <code>kernel.yama.ptrace_scope=0</code>
* <code>kernel.kptr_restrict=0</code>
* <code>kernel.core_pattern=core</code>

=== /usr/lib/systemd/journald.conf.d/40_debug-misc.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/debug-misc/blob/master/usr/lib/systemd/journald.conf.d/40_debug-misc.conf /usr/lib/systemd/journald.conf.d/40_debug-misc.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/debug-misc/usr/lib/systemd/journald.conf.d/40_debug-misc.conf</code>


Enable persistent systemd journal log.
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Troubleshooting#Enable_Persistent_Systemd_Journal_Log
By default, a persistent systemd journal log is not enabled in Debian.
https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=801906
* <code>[Journal]</code>
* <code>Storage=persistent</code>

