== anon-gw-anonymizer-config ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Tor Configuration and Tweaks for Anonymity Distributions ===

Tor config file with distribution defaults (for stream isolation, etc.),
example user configurations and other tweaks required. The Tor binary
itself does not get modified.

Deactivates IPv4 forwarding using /etc/sysctl.d/
IPv4 forwarding is not required for a Tor based Anonymity Distribution
Gateways. Deactivating it as defense in depth to prevent leaks.

Deactivates IPv6 using /etc/sysctl.d/
There are no IPv6 Anonymity Distribution Gateways featuring an IPv6 firewall
yet. Therefore deactivating it to prevent leaks.

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf /etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/60_network.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor is disabled by default.
Users are supposed to enable Tor through setup-dist which would
create file /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf with
"DisableNetwork 0" or by removing the hash ('#') in front of
"DisableNetwork 0" in /usr/local/etc/torrc.d/40_tor_control_panel.conf
* <code>DisableNetwork 1</code>

* <code>VirtualAddrNetwork 10.192.0.0/10</code>
* <code>AutomapHostsOnResolve 1</code>

* <code>Log notice file /run/tor/log</code>
=== /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf /etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/etc/torrc.d/65_gateway.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Gateway: `ClientOnionAuthDir`, `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
=== /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Tor settings for Workstation: `SocksPort`s, `TransPort`,
`DnsPort`, `HTTPTunnelPort`s and stream isolation settings.
IP HARDCODED unfortunately.
== whonix-gw-network-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Network Configuration for Whonix-Gateway ===

Includes etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix for
Non-Qubes-Whonix-Gateway.

Sets up two network interfaces, an external one eth0 and an internal one eth1.

Provides /usr/share/whonix-gw-network-conf/network_internal_ip.txt.

DNS configuration Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateways

* Pointing /etc/resolv.conf to 127.0.0.1.
* Whether a Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateway supports system DNS for its
own traffic in the clear or anonymized mainly depends on the Gateway's
firewall.
* Routing the workstation's system DNS through the anonymizer (also known as
Transparent DNS Proxy) or not is up to the Gateway's firewall as well.
=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Disable Predictable Network Interface Names as these are problematic.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/whonix-14-0-0-0-7-developers-only/3449/4
Disabling them as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>/dev/null /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link</code>

=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Required for /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link to take effect as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>activate-noawait update-initramfs</code>

=== /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

network interfaces configuration eth0 (external network interface) and eth1 (internal network interface)

static network configuration

IP HARDCODED below but comment only. No need to change.
eth0
<code>#address 10.0.2.15</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.255.0</code><br />
<code>#gateway 10.0.2.2</code><br />

eth1
<code>#address 10.152.152.10</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.192.0</code><br />
=== /etc/resolv.conf.whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/etc/resolv.conf.whonix /etc/resolv.conf.whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/etc/resolv.conf.whonix</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

No DNS configuration.
Only comments.
Whonix-Gateway by default does not have system default DNS.
See https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Whonix-Gateway_Own_Traffic_Transparent_Proxy
and footnotes.
=== /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

onion-grater systemd unit file extension

Run <code>/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code> as root to avoid permission
conflicts.
<code>ExecStartPre=+/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code>

Reconfigure <code>onion-grater</code> to listen on network interface
<code>eth1</code>.
