== anon-gw-anonymizer-config ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Tor Configuration and Tweaks for Anonymity Distributions ===

Tor config file with distribution defaults (for stream isolation, etc.),
example user configurations and other tweaks required. The Tor binary
itself does not get modified.

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/blob/master/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-anonymizer-config/usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Whonix Tor configuration

https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Stream_Isolation

* <code>ControlSocket</code>
* <code>SocksPort</code>
* <code>HTTPTunnelPort</code>
* <code>TransPort</code>
* <code>DnsPort</code>
* Upstream Defaults File
* Enable / Disable Tor
* Leak Tests
* General Settings
* Workstation Trans/Dns-Port
* Workstation SocksPorts
* Gateway Trans/Dns-Port
* Gateway SocksPorts
== anon-gw-dhcp-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dhcp-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dhcp-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  DHCP config for Anonymity Distribution Gateways ===

Prevents DHCP from modifications of /etc/resolv.conf by shipping a
configuration file.

In context of Anonymity Distribution Gateways, it is useful to obtain network
configuration for the interface to connect to the internet from a virtual
machine or hardware router to avoid usability issues with manual static
network configuration. At the same time, Anonymity Distribution Gateways
usually do not need a functional system DNS resolver (/etc/resolv.conf),
pointing to a clearnet DNS resolver, because ideally all the Gateway's traffic
including its own DNS is routed through the anonymity network as well.

Usually the Gateway's firewall should ensure, that the Gateway will not leak
it's own DNS requests. However, preventing DHCP from setting /etc/resolv.conf
to a functional clearnet DNS resolver is useful as defense in depth. Also in
case the Gateways system DNS resolver points to the anonymizer, it is crucial,
that it does not get modified by DHCP.
=== /etc/dhcp/dhclient-enter-hooks.d/nodnsupdate ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dhcp-conf/blob/master/etc/dhcp/dhclient-enter-hooks.d/nodnsupdate /etc/dhcp/dhclient-enter-hooks.d/nodnsupdate]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-dhcp-conf/etc/dhcp/dhclient-enter-hooks.d/nodnsupdate</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Not installed by default.

prevent resolvconf from modifying <code>/etc/resolv.conf</code>
== anon-gw-dns-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dns-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dns-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  DNS configuration Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateways ===

Pointing /etc/resolv.conf to 127.0.0.1.

Whether a Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateway supports system DNS for its own
traffic in the clear or anonymized mainly depends on the Gateway's firewall.

Routing the workstation's system DNS through the anonymizer (also known as
Transparent DNS Proxy) or not is up to the Gateway's firewall as well.
=== /etc/resolv.conf.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dns-conf/blob/master/etc/resolv.conf.anondist /etc/resolv.conf.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-dns-conf/etc/resolv.conf.anondist</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Not installed by default.

Configure to use torified DNS server for traffic originating from
Whonix-Gateway.

Set <code>/etc/resolv.conf</code> to <code>nameserver 127.0.0.1</code>
and comments.
=== /lib/systemd/system/systemd-resolved.service.d/40_anon-dns-conf.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/anon-gw-dns-conf/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/systemd-resolved.service.d/40_anon-dns-conf.conf /lib/systemd/system/systemd-resolved.service.d/40_anon-dns-conf.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/anon-gw-dns-conf/lib/systemd/system/systemd-resolved.service.d/40_anon-dns-conf.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Disable <code>systemd-resolved</code> if file
<code>/etc/resolv.conf.anondist</code> exists.
== ipv4-forward-disable ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/ipv4-forward-disable
* [https://github.com/Whonix/ipv4-forward-disable/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Deactivates IPv4 forwarding using /etc/sysctl.d/ ===

IPv4 forwarding is not required for a Tor based Anonymity Distribution
Gateways. Deactivating it as defense in depth to prevent leaks.

For better security.
=== /etc/sysctl.d/ipv4-forward-disable.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/ipv4-forward-disable/blob/master/etc/sysctl.d/ipv4-forward-disable.conf /etc/sysctl.d/ipv4-forward-disable.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/ipv4-forward-disable/etc/sysctl.d/ipv4-forward-disable.conf</code>

Disable ipv4 Forwarding as per https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/doc/TransparentProxy
== whonix-gw-network-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Network Configuration for Whonix-Gateway ===

Includes etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix for
Non-Qubes-Whonix-Gateway.

Sets up two network interfaces, an external one eth0 and an internal one eth1.

Provides /usr/share/whonix-gw-network-conf/network_internal_ip.txt.
=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Disable Predictable Network Interface Names as these are problematic.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/whonix-14-0-0-0-7-developers-only/3449/4
Disabling them as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>/dev/null /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link</code>

=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Required for /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link to take effect as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>activate-noawait update-initramfs</code>

=== /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

network interfaces configuration eth0 (external network interface) and eth1 (internal network interface)

static network configuration

eth0
<code>#address 10.0.2.15</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.255.0</code><br />
<code>#gateway 10.0.2.2</code><br />

eth1
<code>#address 10.152.152.10</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.192.0</code><br />
=== /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

onion-grater systemd unit file extension

Run <code>/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code> as root to avoid permission
conflicts.
<code>ExecStartPre=+/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code>

Reconfigure <code>onion-grater</code> to listen on network interface
<code>eth1</code>.
