== qubes-whonix ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix
* [https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
## This file is part of Whonix
## -- and --
## The Qubes OS Project, http://www.qubes-os.org
##
## Copyright (C) 2014 - 2015 Jason Mehring <nrgaway@gmail.com>
## Copyright (C) 2012 - 2018 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LP <adrelanos@riseup.net>
## See the file COPYING for copying conditions.

Source: qubes-whonix
Section: admin
Priority: optional
Maintainer: Patrick Schleizer <adrelanos@riseup.net>
Build-Depends: debhelper (>= 12), genmkfile, python, dh-python, config-package-dev
Homepage: https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix
Vcs-Browser: https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix
Vcs-Git: https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix.git
Standards-Version: 4.3.0

Package: qubes-whonix
Architecture: all
Depends: adduser,
qubes-core-agent,
qubesdb-vm,
ethtool,
net-tools,
sudo,
systemd,
rsync,
whonix-firewall,
curl,
qubes-core-agent (<< 4.0.0-1) | qubes-core-agent-networking,
python3,
python3-pyqt5,
${python:Depends},
${misc:Depends}
Provides: ${diverted-files}
Conflicts: ${diverted-files}
Description: Qubes Configuration for Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation
===  Qubes Configuration for Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation ===

This package contains all the scripts and configuration options to be able
to run Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation within a Qubes environment.

Whonix-Gateway should run as a ProxyVM.

Whonix-Workstation should run as an AppVM.

Template updates over Tor.

Package: qubes-whonix-shared-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: qubes-core-agent (<< 4.0.0-1) | qubes-core-agent-passwordless-root,
qubes-kernel-vm-support, initramfs-tools, qubes-mgmt-salt-vm-connector,
qubes-usb-proxy, qubes-input-proxy-sender,
qubes-core-agent-thunar, qubes-core-agent-nautilus,
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway and Qubes-Whonix-Workstation
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway and Qubes-Whonix-Workstation ===

A metapackage, which includes recommended packages to ensure, Qubes-Whonix
standard tools are available and other useful recommended packages.

Safe to remove, if you know what you are doing.

Package: qubes-whonix-gateway-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: tinyproxy,
yum,
yum-utils,
qubes-core-agent (<< 4.0.0-1) | qubes-core-agent-dom0-updates,
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway ===

A metapackage, which installs packages, which are recommended for
Qubes-Whonix-Gateway.

Safe to remove, if you know what you are doing.

Package: qubes-whonix-workstation-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: qubes-thunderbird,
qubes-gpg-split,
qubes-pdf-converter,
qubes-img-converter,
pulseaudio-qubes | qubes-gui-agent (<< 4.0.0),
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Workstation
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Workstation ===

A metapackage, which installs packages, which are recommended for
Qubes-Whonix-Workstation.

Feel free to remove, if you know what you are doing.
=== /etc/qubes/protected-files.d/qubes-whonix.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix/blob/master/etc/qubes/protected-files.d/qubes-whonix.conf /etc/qubes/protected-files.d/qubes-whonix.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/qubes-whonix/etc/qubes/protected-files.d/qubes-whonix.conf</code>
* Qubes-Whonix only

Configure Qubes to not modify files shipped by Whonix:

* <code>/etc/hostname</code>
* <code>/etc/hosts</code>
* <code>/etc/localtime</code>
* <code>/etc/timezone</code>
