== qubes-whonix ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix
* [https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Qubes Configuration for Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation ===

This package contains all the scripts and configuration options to be able
to run Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation within a Qubes environment.

Whonix-Gateway should run as a ProxyVM.

Whonix-Workstation should run as an AppVM.

Template updates over Tor.

Package: qubes-whonix-shared-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: qubes-core-agent (<< 4.0.0-1) | qubes-core-agent-passwordless-root,
qubes-kernel-vm-support, initramfs-tools, qubes-mgmt-salt-vm-connector,
qubes-usb-proxy, qubes-input-proxy-sender,
qubes-core-agent-thunar, qubes-core-agent-nautilus,
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway and Qubes-Whonix-Workstation
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway and Qubes-Whonix-Workstation ===

A metapackage, which includes recommended packages to ensure, Qubes-Whonix
standard tools are available and other useful recommended packages.

Safe to remove, if you know what you are doing.

Package: qubes-whonix-gateway-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: tinyproxy,
yum,
yum-utils,
qubes-core-agent (<< 4.0.0-1) | qubes-core-agent-dom0-updates,
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Gateway ===

A metapackage, which installs packages, which are recommended for
Qubes-Whonix-Gateway.

Safe to remove, if you know what you are doing.

Package: qubes-whonix-workstation-packages-recommended
Architecture: all
Depends: qubes-thunderbird,
qubes-gpg-split,
qubes-pdf-converter,
qubes-img-converter,
pulseaudio-qubes | qubes-gui-agent (<< 4.0.0),
${misc:Depends}
Description: Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Workstation
===  Recommended packages for Qubes-Whonix-Workstation ===

A metapackage, which installs packages, which are recommended for
Qubes-Whonix-Workstation.

Feel free to remove, if you know what you are doing.
=== /etc/uwt.d/40_qubes.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/qubes-whonix/blob/master/etc/uwt.d/40_qubes.conf /etc/uwt.d/40_qubes.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/qubes-whonix/etc/uwt.d/40_qubes.conf</code>
* Qubes-Whonix only

uwt Qubes-Whonix Integration

Runs only inside Qubes TemplateVM.

This configuration snippets configures [[#uwt|uwt]] to wait before running
<code>apt</code> until status file
<code>/run/qubes-service/whonix-secure-proxy</code> or
status file
<code>/run/qubes-service/whonix-secure-proxy-check-done</code>
exists. It will timeout after <code>120</code> seconds.

This is to determine if torified Qubes updates proxy was detected.

If torified Qubes updates proxy detection fails, it will prevent running
<code>apt</code> and show the following warning.

<blockquote>
WARNING: Execution of apt prevented by @file_name@ because no torified Qubes updates proxy found.
</blockquote>

If torified Qubes updates proxy detection succeeds, it will
disable apt uwtwrapper.
In other words, run apt normally. Run apt without <code>torsocks</code>.
Because <code>apt</code> config file.
<code>/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01qubes-proxy</code> will already have http proxy
settings for TCP based Qubes Updates proxy
<code>Acquire::http::Proxy "http://10.137.255.254:8082/";</code>
or for qrexec based Qubes updates proxy.
<code>Acquire::http::Proxy "http://127.0.0.1:8082/";</code>
