== sdwdate ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/sdwdate
* [https://github.com/Whonix/sdwdate/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Secure Distributed Network Time Synchronization ===

Time keeping is crucial for security, privacy, and anonymity. Sdwdate is a Tor
friendly replacement for rdate and ntpdate that sets the system's clock by
communicating via onion encrypted TCP with Tor onion webservers.

At randomized intervals, sdwdate connects to a variety of webservers and
extracts the time stamps from http headers (RFC 2616).
Using sclockadj option, time is gradually adjusted preventing bigger clock
jumps that could confuse logs, servers, Tor, i2p, etc.

This package contains the sdwdate time fetcher and daemon. No
installation on remote servers required. To avoid conflicts, this daemon
should not be enabled together with ntp or tlsdated.
=== /usr/lib/sdwdate/sdwdate-restart-tor-request-file-watcher ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/sdwdate/blob/master/usr/lib/sdwdate/sdwdate-restart-tor-request-file-watcher /usr/lib/sdwdate/sdwdate-restart-tor-request-file-watcher]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/sdwdate/usr/lib/sdwdate/sdwdate-restart-tor-request-file-watcher</code>

restart tor@default if running when sdwdate creates file
`/run/sdwdate/request_tor_restart`.

This script allows sdwdate to request restart of Tor through creation of
file `/run/sdwdate/request_tor_restart`.

This is an alternative to avoid having to weaken sdwdate hardening (systemd,
apparmor) while permitting sdwdate to restart of Tor.
