== security-misc ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/security-misc
* [https://github.com/Whonix/security-misc/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Enhances Miscellaneous Security Settings ===

https://github.com/Whonix/security-misc/blob/master/README.md

https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Security-misc

Discussion:

Happening primarily in Whonix forums.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/kernel-hardening/7296
=== /debian/security-misc.triggers ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/security-misc/blob/master/debian/security-misc.triggers /debian/security-misc.triggers]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/security-misc/debian/security-misc.triggers</code>


Activate initramfs hook that sets the sysctl values before init is executed.
* <code>activate-noawait update-initramfs</code>

=== /etc/sysctl.d/30_security-misc.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/security-misc/blob/master/etc/sysctl.d/30_security-misc.conf /etc/sysctl.d/30_security-misc.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/security-misc/etc/sysctl.d/30_security-misc.conf</code>

TCP/IP stack hardening

Protects against time-wait assassination.
It drops RST packets for sockets in the time-wait state.
* <code>net.ipv4.tcp_rfc1337=1</code>

Disables ICMP redirect acceptance.
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.all.secure_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.default.secure_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_redirects=0</code>

Disables ICMP redirect sending.
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.all.send_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.default.send_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_redirects=0</code>

Ignores ICMP requests.
* <code>net.ipv4.icmp_echo_ignore_all=1</code>

Enables TCP syncookies.
* <code>net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies=1</code>

Disable source routing.
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_source_route=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_source_route=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_source_route=0</code>
* <code>net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_source_route=0</code>

Enable reverse path filtering to prevent IP spoofing and
mitigate vulnerabilities such as CVE-2019-14899.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/enable-reverse-path-filtering/8594
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.default.rp_filter=1</code>
* <code>net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter=1</code>

