== setup-dist ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/setup-dist
* [https://github.com/Whonix/setup-dist/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  First Time Connection Setup ===

When Whonix starts for the first time, it won't automatically connect to the
public Tor network. This is useful for users who want to hide Tor from their
ISP. setup-dist is automatically started, which educates about different
methods to connect (public Tor network, bridges, etc.).

Also automatically starts the Whonix Repository Tool (if installed), so the
user can decide whether to use Whonix's Repository and if yes, choose which
one.
=== /usr/bin/easo ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/setup-dist/blob/master/usr/bin/easo /usr/bin/easo]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/setup-dist/usr/bin/easo</code>

`easo` stands for `easyorca`.
A short name to avoid y vs z on English vs German and other keyboard
layouts. Cannot be called `easyorca` due to technical reasons.
https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/orca/-/issues/189

Simple wrapper that runs the following commands:

- `amixer set Master 50%`
- `orca --replace & disown`
- `dsudo easyorca-root`.

Works only as long as the default password has not been changed because it
is using `dsudo`.

`dsudo`, see:
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Root#dsudo_-_default_password_sudo

After default password was changed, users would have to use
`sudo easyorca-root` instead.
=== /usr/sbin/easyorca-root ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/setup-dist/blob/master/usr/sbin/easyorca-root /usr/sbin/easyorca-root]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/setup-dist/usr/sbin/easyorca-root</code>

Helper script. Supposed to be run by `easo` (easyorca). Not supposed to be
run directly.

* Disable autostart of setup-wizard-dist GUI.
* Enable orca autostart.
* Enable orca-kill-at-shutdown.service systemd unit.
* Accept setup-wizard-dist legal notices using `setup-dist`(`-noninteractive`).
* Enable Tor public network using `setup-dist`(`-noninteractive`).
* Does not start `orca` because this script is supposed to run as root while
`orca` should run as user, not root. Starting `orca` is expected to be done
`easo` or the user.
