== uwt ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/uwt
* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Use Applications over Tor with Stream Isolation and Time Privacy ===

Can add "torsocks" and/or "timeprivacy" before invocation of applications when
configured to do so. For example, when simply typing "apt-get" instead of
"torsocks apt-get", "apt-get" can still be routed over Tor.

The uwt package comes with the following applications pre-configured to use
uwtwrapper, Tor and stream isolation:
- apt
- apt-file
- apt-get
- aptitude-curses
- curl
- git
- gpg
- gpg2
- mixmaster-update
- rawdog
- ssh
- wget
- yum
- yumdownloader
- wormhole

To circumvent a uwt wrapper on a by case base, you append ".anondist-real" to
the command, for example "apt-get.anondist-real". You can also deactivate
specific or all uwt wrappers by using the stackable .d-style configuration
folder /etc/uwt.d.

Uwt can only work only as good as torsocks. If torsocks is unable to route all
of an application's traffic over Tor, ex. if there is an leak, there will
also be one when using uwt. For that reason, it is recommended to use
Anonymity Distributions, that prevent such leaks.

If an applications has native support for socks proxy settings, those should
be preferred over uwt. Also refer to the TorifyHOWTO and your distribution's
documentation.

Timeprivacy can keep your time private. You can create wrappers for
applications and timeprivacy will feed those applications with a fake time,
which obfuscates at which time you really used that applications (such as when
you made the git commit or when you signed that document). It does NOT set
your time zone to UTC.

This package is probably most useful for Anonymity Distributions.

This package is produced independently of, and carries no guarantee from,
The Tor Project.
=== /debian/uwt.displace ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/debian/uwt.displace /debian/uwt.displace]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/debian/uwt.displace</code>

replace the following files with the <code>uwt</code> version

Using <code>config-package-dev</code> <code>displace</code>.

<code>/etc/tor/torsocks</code> configuration file
* <code>/etc/tor/torsocks.conf.anondist</code>

Replace <code>apt</code>, <code>wget</code>, <code>curl</code>,
<code>ssh</code>, <code>onionshare</code>, <code>ricochet</code>,
<code>wormhole</code> with <code>uwt</code> wrapper which then calls
<code>/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper</code>.
* <code>/usr/bin/apt.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/apt-file.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/aptitude-curses.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/curl.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/git.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/gpg.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/gpg2.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/mixmaster-update.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/rawdog.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/ssh.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/wget.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/yum.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/yumdownloader.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/onionshare.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/onionshare-gui.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/ricochet.anondist</code>
* <code>/usr/bin/wormhole.anondist</code>

=== /etc/profile.d/20_uwt.sh ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/etc/profile.d/20_uwt.sh /etc/profile.d/20_uwt.sh]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/etc/profile.d/20_uwt.sh</code>

<code>/etc/profile.d</code> hook to source <code>/usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh</code>
=== /etc/sudoers.d/uwt ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/etc/sudoers.d/uwt /etc/sudoers.d/uwt]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/etc/sudoers.d/uwt</code>

Disable torsocks warning spam such as.
[May 20 11:45:27] WARNING torsocks[2645]: [syscall] Unsupported syscall number 224. Denying the call (in tsocks_syscall() at syscall.c:165)
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T317
* <code>Defaults:ALL env_keep += "TORSOCKS_LOG_LEVEL"</code>
=== /etc/tor/torsocks.conf.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/etc/tor/torsocks.conf.anondist /etc/tor/torsocks.conf.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/etc/tor/torsocks.conf.anondist</code>

<code>torsocks</code> configuration
* <code>AllowInbound 1</code>
* <code>AllowOutboundLocalhost 1</code>
* <code>IsolatePID 1</code>
=== /etc/uwt.d/30_uwt_default.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/etc/uwt.d/30_uwt_default.conf /etc/uwt.d/30_uwt_default.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/etc/uwt.d/30_uwt_default.conf</code>

<code>uwt</code> configuration
=== /etc/X11/Xsession.d/20uwt ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/etc/X11/Xsession.d/20uwt /etc/X11/Xsession.d/20uwt]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/etc/X11/Xsession.d/20uwt</code>

<code>/etc/X11/Xsession.d</code> hook to source <code>/usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh</code>
=== /usr/bin/apt.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/apt.anondist /usr/bin/apt.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/apt.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application

* <code>export uwtwrapper_parent="${BASH_SOURCE[0]}"</code>
* <code>exec /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper "$@"</code>

=== /usr/bin/apt-file.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/apt-file.anondist /usr/bin/apt-file.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/apt-file.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/apt-get.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist /usr/bin/apt-get.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/aptitude-curses.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/aptitude-curses.anondist /usr/bin/aptitude-curses.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/aptitude-curses.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/curl.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/curl.anondist /usr/bin/curl.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/curl.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application

* <code>export uwtwrapper_parent="${BASH_SOURCE[0]}"</code>
* <code>exec /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper "$@"</code>

=== /usr/bin/git.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/git.anondist /usr/bin/git.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/git.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/gpg2.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/gpg2.anondist /usr/bin/gpg2.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/gpg2.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/mixmaster-update.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/mixmaster-update.anondist /usr/bin/mixmaster-update.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/mixmaster-update.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/onionshare-gui.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/onionshare-gui.anondist /usr/bin/onionshare-gui.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/onionshare-gui.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/rawdog.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/rawdog.anondist /usr/bin/rawdog.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/rawdog.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/ricochet.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/ricochet.anondist /usr/bin/ricochet.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/ricochet.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application

ricochet does not have unix domain socket file support, therefore it depends
on the TOR_CONTROL_HOST and TOR_CONTROL_PORT environment variables being
set. Otherwise it would try to start its own Tor instance.
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T444
* <code>TOR_CONTROL_HOST="127.0.0.1"</code>
* <code>TOR_CONTROL_PORT="9151"</code>
* <code>export TOR_CONTROL_HOST</code>
* <code>export TOR_CONTROL_PORT</code>

* <code>export uwtwrapper_parent="${BASH_SOURCE[0]}"</code>
* <code>exec /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper "$@"</code>
=== /usr/bin/ssh.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/ssh.anondist /usr/bin/ssh.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/ssh.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/time_privacy ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/time_privacy /usr/bin/time_privacy]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/time_privacy</code>

undocumented
=== /usr/bin/wget.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/wget.anondist /usr/bin/wget.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/wget.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/wormhole.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/wormhole.anondist /usr/bin/wormhole.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/wormhole.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/yum.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/yum.anondist /usr/bin/yum.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/yum.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/bin/yumdownloader.anondist ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/bin/yumdownloader.anondist /usr/bin/yumdownloader.anondist]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/bin/yumdownloader.anondist</code>

uwt wrapped application
=== /usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh /usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/lib/uwt/uwt.sh</code>


Disable torsocks warning spam such as.
[May 20 11:45:27] WARNING torsocks[2645]: [syscall] Unsupported syscall number 224. Denying the call (in tsocks_syscall() at syscall.c:165)
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T317
* <code>export TORSOCKS_LOG_LEVEL=1</code>

=== /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtexec ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtexec /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtexec]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtexec</code>


This script is used by uwtwrapper as a workaround to preserve the zeroth
argument when executing programs with other wrappers like faketime or torsocks.

=== /usr/lib/uwt_settings_show ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/lib/uwt_settings_show /usr/lib/uwt_settings_show]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/lib/uwt_settings_show</code>


* <code>echo "uwt INFO: Stream isolation for some applications enabled. uwt / torsocks will be automatically prepended to some commands. What is that? See:"</code>
* <code>echo "uwt INFO: https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Stream_Isolation/Easy"</code>

=== /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/uwt/blob/master/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper /usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/uwt/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper</code>

When running uwt wrapped applications (such as <code>apt</code>,
<code>wget</code>, <code>curl</code>, <code>onionshare</code> or others)
automatically prepend <code>torsocks</code> or <code>bindp</code>. I.e.

When for example <code>apt</code> or <code>curl</code> is executed, what
really happens is running <code>torsocks apt</code> or
<code>torsocks curl</code>.

uwtwrappers and <code>/usr/libexec/uwt/uwtwrapper</code> are hacks to socksify applications
that do
not support native socks proxy settings. Used to implement Stream Isolation.
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Stream_Isolation

In essence, uwtwrappers are installed so users can type commands like
apt-get normally while transparently injecting torsocks, thereby stream
isolating them.

To understand better how uwt wrappers function, you could for example open
/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist in an editor.

Also useful to run:
ls -la /usr/bin/apt-get*

You will see, that /usr/bin/apt-get has been replaced with a symlink to
/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist. (This was done using config-package-dev.)

/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist is a uwt wrapper.

/usr/bin/apt-get.anondist-orig is the original apt-get binary.

<code>bindp</code> is used to make applications which listen on the internal
IP by default such as <code>onionshare</code> (which is the right thing to
outside of Whonix) listen on the external IP instead. See also:

* https://github.com/Whonix/bindp
* https://phabricator.whonix.org/T561
