== whonix-firewall ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall
* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Firewall for Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation ===

iptables rules script and firewall configuration file for Whonix-Gateway and
Whonix-Workstation.

Whonix-Gateway Firewall Features:
- transparent proxying
- stream isolation
- reject invalid packages
- fail closed mechanism
- optional VPN-Firewall
- optional isolating proxy
- optional incoming flash proxy
- optional Tor relay

Do not remove, unless you no longer wish to use Whonix.
=== /debian/whonix-firewall.postinst ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/debian/whonix-firewall.postinst /debian/whonix-firewall.postinst]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/debian/whonix-firewall.postinst</code>

Creates linux user accounts used by firewall script
clearnet tunnel notunnel systemcheck sdwdate updatesproxycheck.

Creates empty /etc/whonix_firewall.d/50_user.conf which is not owned
by any package if not existing.
=== /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_gateway_default.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_gateway_default.conf /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_gateway_default.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_gateway_default.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

Whonix firewall configuration file
=== /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_host_default.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_host_default.conf /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_host_default.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_host_default.conf</code>

undocumented
=== /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_workstation_default.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_workstation_default.conf /etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_workstation_default.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/etc/whonix_firewall.d/30_whonix_workstation_default.conf</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->

Whonix firewall configuration file
=== /lib/systemd/system/networking.service.d/30_whonix-gw-firewall-fail-closed.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/networking.service.d/30_whonix-gw-firewall-fail-closed.conf /lib/systemd/system/networking.service.d/30_whonix-gw-firewall-fail-closed.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/lib/systemd/system/networking.service.d/30_whonix-gw-firewall-fail-closed.conf</code>

Fail Closed Mechanism.
When the Whonix firewall systemd service failed, do not bring up the
network.

TODO: does not cover Qubes-Whonix since Qubes does not use networking.service.
TODO: disabled, broken. Breaks networking on package upgrades.
https://phabricator.whonix.org/T875

<code>#[Unit]</code><br />
<code>#After=whonix-firewall.service</code><br />
<code>#Requires=whonix-firewall.service</code><br />

=== /lib/systemd/system/whonix-firewall.service ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/whonix-firewall.service /lib/systemd/system/whonix-firewall.service]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/lib/systemd/system/whonix-firewall.service</code>

Runs <code>/usr/lib/whonix-firewall/enable-firewall</code>.

On Whonix-Gateway or Whonix-Workstation (if
<code>/usr/share/anon-gw-base-files/gateway</code> or
<code>/usr/share/anon-ws-base-files/workstation</code> exists),
loads Whonix Firewall.

(Does nothing inside Qubes TemplateVMs.)

If loading Whonix Firewall fails, creates
<code>/run/anon-firewall/failed.status</code>.
=== /usr/bin/whonix_firewall ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/usr/bin/whonix_firewall /usr/bin/whonix_firewall]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/usr/bin/whonix_firewall</code>

firewall starter wrapper
=== /usr/bin/whonix-gateway-firewall ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/usr/bin/whonix-gateway-firewall /usr/bin/whonix-gateway-firewall]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/usr/bin/whonix-gateway-firewall</code>

firewall script
=== /usr/bin/whonix-workstation-firewall ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/usr/bin/whonix-workstation-firewall /usr/bin/whonix-workstation-firewall]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/usr/bin/whonix-workstation-firewall</code>

firewall script
=== /usr/lib/whonix-firewall/enable-firewall ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/usr/lib/whonix-firewall/enable-firewall /usr/lib/whonix-firewall/enable-firewall]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/usr/lib/whonix-firewall/enable-firewall</code>

Wrapper to start firewall and create failure status files on failure.
=== /usr/share/whonix-ws-firewall/unit_tests/stream_isolation_test ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-firewall/blob/master/usr/share/whonix-ws-firewall/unit_tests/stream_isolation_test /usr/share/whonix-ws-firewall/unit_tests/stream_isolation_test]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-firewall/usr/share/whonix-ws-firewall/unit_tests/stream_isolation_test</code>

stream isolation developer test script
