== whonix-ws-network-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Network Configuration for Whonix-Workstation ===

Includes /etc/network/interfaces for Whonix-Workstation.

Sets up an internal network interface eth0.

DNS configuration Anonymity Linux Distribution Workstations
Whether a Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateway supports anonymized system DNS
for Workstation's traffic (also known as Transparent DNS Proxy) mainly depends
on the Gateway's firewall.

This package is simply installing /etc/resolv.conf which points to
10.152.152.10, where an Anon-Gateway is supposed to provide a DnsPort on port
53. IP HARDCODED but no need to change because only description.

Currently relevant for Non-Qubes-Whonix only.
=== /debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.links ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.links /debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.links]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-ws-network-conf/debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.links</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Disable Predictable Network Interface Names as these are problematic.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/whonix-14-0-0-0-7-developers-only/3449/4
Disabling them as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>/dev/null /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link</code>

=== /debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.triggers ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.triggers /debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.triggers]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-ws-network-conf/debian/whonix-ws-network-conf.triggers</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Required for /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link to take effect as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>activate-noawait update-initramfs</code>

=== /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf/blob/master/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-ws-network-conf/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix</code>
* workstation only<!--workstation-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

network interfaces configuration eth0 to communicate with Whonix-Gateway

static network configuration

IP HARDCODED but not need to change since only comment.
<code>#address 10.152.152.11</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.192.0</code><br />
<code>#gateway 10.152.152.10</code><br />
=== /etc/resolv.conf.whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-ws-network-conf/blob/master/etc/resolv.conf.whonix /etc/resolv.conf.whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-ws-network-conf/etc/resolv.conf.whonix</code>

set <code>nameserver 10.152.152.10</code>
This works different in Qubes-Whonix.
