== whonix-gw-network-conf ==

* https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf
* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/control debian/control]
===  Network Configuration for Whonix-Gateway ===

Includes etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix for
Non-Qubes-Whonix-Gateway.

Sets up two network interfaces, an external one eth0 and an internal one eth1.

Provides /usr/share/whonix-gw-network-conf/network_internal_ip.txt.

DNS configuration Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateways

* Pointing /etc/resolv.conf to 127.0.0.1.
* Whether a Anonymity Linux Distribution Gateway supports system DNS for its
own traffic in the clear or anonymized mainly depends on the Gateway's
firewall.
* Routing the workstation's system DNS through the anonymizer (also known as
Transparent DNS Proxy) or not is up to the Gateway's firewall as well.
=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.links</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Disable Predictable Network Interface Names as these are problematic.
https://forums.whonix.org/t/whonix-14-0-0-0-7-developers-only/3449/4
Disabling them as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>/dev/null /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link</code>

=== /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers /debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/debian/whonix-gw-network-conf.triggers</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only


Required for /etc/systemd/network/99-default.link to take effect as per
'zless /usr/share/doc/udev/README.Debian.gz'.
* <code>activate-noawait update-initramfs</code>

=== /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix /etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/etc/network/interfaces.d/30_non-qubes-whonix</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

network interfaces configuration eth0 (external network interface) and eth1 (internal network interface)

static network configuration

IP HARDCODED below but comment only. No need to change.
eth0
<code>#address 10.0.2.15</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.255.0</code><br />
<code>#gateway 10.0.2.2</code><br />

eth1
<code>#address 10.152.152.10</code><br />
<code>#netmask 255.255.192.0</code><br />
=== /etc/resolv.conf.whonix ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/etc/resolv.conf.whonix /etc/resolv.conf.whonix]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/etc/resolv.conf.whonix</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->

No DNS configuration.
Only comments.
Whonix-Gateway by default does not have system default DNS.
See https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Whonix-Gateway_Own_Traffic_Transparent_Proxy
and footnotes.
=== /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf ===

* [https://github.com/Whonix/whonix-gw-network-conf/blob/master/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf /lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf]
* <code>~/Whonix/packages/whonix-gw-network-conf/lib/systemd/system/onion-grater.service.d/30_cpfpy.conf</code>
* gateway only<!--gateway-only-->
* Non-Qubes-Whonix only

onion-grater systemd unit file extension

Run <code>/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code> as root to avoid permission
conflicts.
<code>ExecStartPre=+/usr/lib/onion-grater-merger</code>

Reconfigure <code>onion-grater</code> to listen on network interface
<code>eth1</code>.
